# Item & Inventory System Review and Update (fix)

## First Thoughts

When I came across this asset I was impressed and encouraged.  
The inventory system seemed clean and simple - clear and minimalist, 
but packed with so much openness and extensibility.  I was excited ...

... Then I started to use it.  Unfortuately there were holes.
* First, and mainly was the documentation.
  * The link (see [below](#from-original-item-&-inventory-system-2.1.4-preview)) 
to the documentation takes you to a 
[website](https://deviongames.com/inventory-system/getting-started/).
I'd like to say it is incomplete, but really it was hardly started.
  * The [Discord](https://discord.gg/y4fMXpZ) seems to be alive, but the creator is abscent
  * On the Discord there isa link to the (original) 
[tutorial videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLexJx2VysToal5by-GWz4U5gXo5HCUX5Y) 
on YouTube
    * Unfortunately they are now a bit out of date
* Secondly, the author is MIA
  * Last update on GitHub as June 2021
  * Last update on Discord also 2021
* After trying to mess with the Unity Asset (Currently version 2.1.3)
  * things break
  * error detection / handling is a bit suspect
  * it is back-level Unity ans a few things just break moving forward
  * not knowing what does what, or relies on what is dishaeartening
* Exploring the example scenes (mainly the Inventory Main Game scene) ...
  * A lot of warning are being generated by Unity 
    * Possibly caused by the editor code being less than tollerant of "incompleteness"?

## A Plan

This READMI.md is a start, but ...
* try not to touch the base code, yet
* try to map out the structure / dependancies of the code
* try to work out what is independent of what - work out the real modules and plug-ins
* use it for real, but knowingly, to generate "how to"s and "what is"s

## [Documentation](Assets/Devion%20Games/Docs/README.md)

If you have a tangled ball of string, 
you can keep teasing at the ends and loops till it comes apart.  
But it it is a tangled ball of strings and other things - ugh!
There does not seem to be a sensible place to put documents, 
and I don't want to start changing code! 
So I am going to create a Docs folder and build ".md" files of what I find.
It will also have other document types in it using the ".md" to link them together.

There are "modules" of a sort in the folders things live in.
I need to find the landing places in each 
and see if I can itentify what is in and not in each real module
and how they link and depend on each other.
To complicate matters, there is "run time" and "editor" code, 
and there is the places where things link through Unity objects (components, etc)!

Got to start somewhere, so let's hit the 
["Inventory Ststem"](Assets/Devion%20Games/Docs/README.md) ...

## Second Thoughts!

Despite the lack of support for the new Input System, and a few other limitations,
I kind of like the idea of building on a fully fledged system, that seems thought through.

### Ok, but where do I start from?  
The ["current release"](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/tools/gui/item-inventory-system-45568) is 2.1.3.  
The ["project release"](https://github.com/DevionGames/inventory-sytem) calls itself 2.1.4 Preview
What's changed?  A lot!  I loaded the 2.1.3 version over a clone of the 2.1.4 - over 600 file changes!
2.1.3 is the "stable", "working" version that has been around for 19 months (released 26 Feb 2021).
2.1.4 was being worked on up to 14 months ago (last commit 30 Jul 2021).

### Where to go?

* I like the new Input System and Cinemachine packages (used by Starter Assets and their 1st and 3rd person coltroller).  
* Devion Games uses their own bespoke 3rd person camera with ray-caster to identify what is being "looked at".
* Devion Games 3rd person controller (and avatar) uses a very involved Input Manager interaction.
* Devion Games inventory / stat / UI also uses the same Input Manager and it is as clear as mud!
* I like the extra triggers and annimations in Devion Games, but they "should" be transferable.
* Devion Games "interactions" are intertwined in the item database.  How to decouple?

## From Original Item & Inventory System 2.1.4 preview

Inventory System is a highly flexible tool for unity. It can be used in any type of game genres such as RPG, FPS, RTS, Platformer and many more. It comes with full source code, allowing you to change anything and extend it as you wish.
* Organized Project
* Intuitive Editor
* Triggering System
* Visual Scripting
* Stat System
* Saving and Loading
* Multiple Inventories and Windows
* Animated Windows
* Currency System
* Vendor System
* Gathering Resources
* Crafting
* Restrictions
* Item Property Generators
* Easy to modify and extend
* Source code included
* Examples

**[Documentation](https://deviongames.com/inventory-system/getting-started/) 
| [Discord](https://discord.gg/y4fMXpZ) 
| [Asset Store](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/tools/gui/item-inventory-system-45568")**
